

horror theme
single player, one NPC
technically turn based, but the turns are moments that are designed not to feel turn-based
possible end of turn on timeout
no inventory
certain moments decrease sanity
sanity doesn't go up
0 sanity = lose?

small loops of moments?

player picks a name
that becomes the name of the save file
if name is taken (save file exists), pop-up warning "Earse old game?"

when app starts, the save file with the most recent change date/time is auto loaded.
If there are multiple save files, maybe list them and let player pick?
auto save on exit
only menu option is to restart


Extra:
moments/endings change based on remaining sanity
Reward players for keeping high sanity (backstory, extra paths, etc..)


Crazy Ideas:
Let Sanity go negative, which changes win condtion
	-Killing your buddy before he escapes?




Bunch of shit from Til
---------------------------------------------------

Game Design

Single Player 

Players will be driven by mood, fear, finding and using only a few one-shot-use powerful magical items, and winning by story logic.
Players will NOT be driven by the high number of items such as money.

Less like a video game and more like a ‘choose-your-own-adventure’ (CYOA) book.
	Example:  A ghost appears, and the player must decide what to do.
	Example:  Player ran from the ghost, but is now blocked by a locked door.

Maintains a spooky/tense mood with occasional pop-corn launching surprises.
Much will be done to eliminate the boring repetitive “read, click-on-action, repeat” style of play.
	Example:  When the story stops and waits for the player to do or decide something, they will be very aware of time passing, and know if they don’t do/decide in time, it will probably be bad for them.

There will be items, and thusly an inventory of some kind that only holds very few.

Game designers write the story, and all of its loops and endings, just like a CYOA.
Game designers then break those story lines into ‘Moments’ when the player must make a decision before the story can continue.
The only way the game can continue is by Transitioning to a different Moment. 
You can think of this as a flowchart where every box is a Moment, and every arrow is called a ‘Transition’.
Transitions are instant and not something the player ever sees or interacts with.
Moments are everything the player sees/interacts with.
Similar to CYOA books, Moments are not meant to have hundreds or even dozens of possible Transitions. 

Moments are simply a collection of lots of scrolling text, mood music, images that float and fade in/out, and a time limit before something default happens. (usually something bad, but not always)
All Moments are unique, and uniquely identified by a positive whole number.
Moments can be stored in simple text files.
These files will have to stick to a consistent name scheme.
	Perhaps: “000.txt”, “001.txt”
	Perhaps: “000--the-nightmare-begins.txt”, “001--run-for-your-life.txt”
Moments could contain dozens of different things, but for now we will restrict to:
	- music  (mood music or stormy weather with occasional overlaid spooky sfx)
	- text (that scrolls and does most of the describing)
	- images
		* background
		* small avatar pic to help identify who is speaking
		* some images will lazily drift or fade in/out
	- timing  (things happen before the player can finish reading/thinking/etc)
 	- all possible player interactions (so many cool things here, but for now restrict to)
		* mouse click on text or image
		* mouse double-click to use crazy powerful demon possessed items
		* ESC to quit

- extra, ideas for later
		* mouse moves in the right curves and speeds to interact with magic
		* things the user say/scream/etc    (use the mic!)
		* things the player frantically draws and then shows the laptop camera (use the cam!)
	 	* coop multiplayer could be really interesting!
